Tidal as a red, red, clear light, great perfection, or great completions, if I translate it, great
completions.
Clear light, clear light, referring to now the nature of the mind, clear nature.
What means clear light? Clear light is free from the dualities, free from the subject notion, free
from the optical notion, it is believed clear light.
Where it is, this is residing within our heart, and that is going through more, and the teacher
will come, so I won't talk about that.
But that is the word. One is free from the subject, free from the object, that is the nature.
And we are going to bring down that to the more simple way, meaning the natural one which is free
from the duality.
The natural one which is free from the duality, that is clear light, clear light, believed light.
Of course, it talks more about that, and then we will follow that to that way.
And the great completion, great completion is then Dzocchi teaching.
That means Dzocchi teaching is everything is completed. Everything is completed, nothing is really
missing in that nature, this nature.
Because it is all that what we are talking, loving kindness, compassion, wisdom, understanding,
love, embody each other, devotion, everything is concluded, nothing is missing.
Where is conclusion? In the nature of the mind. How that nature of the mind is clear light status,
that nature.
And where is residing? And that is then in the teaching we go follow, but is residing within our
heart, within our nature, within our heart center.
It is residing, and in great completion stages. Nothing is missing, missing, missing.
And that means everything. For example, in the Buddha's teaching, the Hinayana teaching is
completed with Dzocchi.
Mahayana teaching is completed in Dzocchi, and our Tantra teaching is completed in Dzocchi.
Mahayoga teaching is completed in Dzocchi, Anayoga teaching is completed in Dzocchi, and therefore,
it is every complete, everything.
Samsara is completed in Dzocchi, Narayana is completed in Dzocchi, nothing is missing after that.
What is that? That is our ended nature of the mind.
Samsara comes from our nature of the mind, Narayana comes from our nature of the mind, everything
comes from our nature of the mind.
It is manifested, report that. When it comes down, come back, it all is our nature of the mind.
What that nature of the mind is is clear like luminosity. What that clear like luminosity is beyond
duality.
Duality is beyond the conception, beyond the duality. That ended nature is Dzocchi. That is the one
degree.
And for that reason, it is called Dzocchi, great completions.
When you have that realization, when you have that realization, understand exactly as it is, then
it is also known as great proportions.
Nothing is imperfect. Nothing is imperfect.
Perfection in perfect perfection is duality. But the Dzocchi level is beyond everything.
Therefore, Dzocchi teaching, sometimes we use, all is good. Everything is good, but there are some
in the Buddha.
Nothing is not good. Perfect. Good and bad are the levels of the dualities.
Reality level, the soul is the same, discipline is the same, ending is the same. What is the
difference?
Only the duality level. How long we level this? According to the Buddha teaching, we level this
from the sense of beginning times, beginning less times.
Throughout the lifetime, we level, we level, we level, holding, holding, and then become tangent.
It becomes like ice. Ice and we trap that. When the ice is melted, where that goes? It becomes
water.
Water is smooth, smooth, tender in a way. That is how it is.
So therefore, the understanding of Dzocchi is not just a partiality attitude, giving something and
trying to take something or accept something.
Accepting the rejection and the sorting out that we have been doing all the time is the game of
dualities.
Game of duality. If duality goes a little stronger, more kind of singly out, what is called ego cl
ings, then ego clings, clings.
And then it goes on and on, lubrication, this and that thing. All is level.
Today, we are trying to release, unknot all those lubrication things. Trying to unknot. Release
that.
How are we going to release it? We are not going to release unknot that with duality as we do.
At the Dzocchi level, we are using that unknot what the teaching will explain. You read these books
, you already know those things, I think.
It is self-liberative. Without a subject or object, without effort, effort, simple, easy, caring,
calm, peaceful, very low-key, and be as natural.
Please, that is what we are going to release. And that technique, to release that technique, what
is called then here, in the debate, I am sure it is isolated there too.
Te-chu. Te-chu. Te-chu. Cutting tolerance. Cutting tolerance. Cutting tolerance teaching is not the
subject or object level. Cutting, cutting as regular, mundane level, even though all use as Te-chu.
Te-chu.
This cutting tolerance is beyond duality. Relaxing its own natural status. Not pursuing the duality
, rather looking to the source of duality and then just letting it go.
And that is what in Dzocchi teaching we have heard so many times. Let it come, let it come, let it
go. Let not stop the movement of the discipline of the nature.
Nature, no, we are not trying to invoke it by the conception, by the dualities. Relaxing in the
personal status. As nature is present, we are in the personal status.
We are not in the past, we are not in the future, even though we have future status, but we are in
the present. Let be in the present as we are. Be stay in the present. Let be everything come,
everything go.
As nature does, without a level, without like manipulating, without a direction by the dualities.
That is what Te-chu is called. Te-chu. Te-chu.
And the teaching said, "Relaxing the natural state of the pure from the beginning." Natural is pure
from the beginning. Relaxing that natural state through the means of the poor abiding techniques.
Those also teaching will tell them, "You good, we hurt the poor abiding techniques." With that,
when you relax in the pure abiding techniques, relax ourselves on the present state with the poor
abiding techniques.
Techniques, all the dualities and the publications naturally liberated, merge it back to the
natural status without even trace. Trace. That is known as Te-chu, cutting poorly.
It is not cutting poorly as a subject or object with knife and so forth, with effort. Effort
cutting is not joking. Effort techniques are used in the Buddha teaching in order to lead, to bring
this understanding.
In the Hinayana teaching, in the Mahayana teaching, in the even in the Vedayana teaching, use those
with some of the effort and all these things because we are trying to direct it to the way from the
old habit patterns.
When we reach to the Dokkan level, we are going to relax, calm and free. When we read that for many
times, use also carefree, prayerfree status, relaxing, calm and faithful, bring forth more joy,
appreciation and both each other and devotion, respect.
Even those beautiful things are also really immediately merged back to it is own souls. So relaxed.
There is no ripples, ripples, calm and faithful, serenities, the movements they display there,
arising energy there, relaxing, calm and peaceful.
That is the word. What is it known as? What is it called? The Tu-Chu. Tu-Chu.
And then here, Thava. Thava is a great word, word, vu. So this is the vu. This is what we are
talking. What I am talking is now, we are beholding the vu.
You are beholding the vu. You know, we are glancing. I hope, I hope. We are glancing of the vu, vu
by this talking, by I talking.
This vu is not a word of something else, something in other directions of our way. We are talking v
u that we inherit our nature. We are talking our vu, your vu, what I am talking.
That is what the Buddha is talking. That is what the great master and the guru and the master, the
madra, even they say they wrote this book, that book.
But this book is not their books. That book is our book, our explanation of our nature, your nature
.
How to bring thought and discover our treasures. My treasures, your treasures, your richness, my
richness. That is what we are talking about.
When you behold that, when you have the glimpse of understanding, that is known as vu.
This vu is not alien. We are involved in some aliens from outside trying to make that sense here.
We have been revealing our own beauty, nature. This is what we are going to, that is our playground
.
Vu is our playground in me. We are going to move with that playground, vu playground.
This playground is our playground, your playground. You are the central of these playgrounds,
playgrounds.
We are going to behold, revel, play the games, all these things. Let it come, let it go, let it be,
and be relaxed. Explore more, explore more.
Let it come, let it go, let it be. That is what it's name is.
So this is what vu is. And we are talking of this vu again. What is vu?
Vu is unimpeded nature of your nature, unimpeded nature, clay-like luminous status, in prison
status.
Our vu is not past. Our vu is not the future. Our vu, your vu, your nature is right present.
That is your vu and my vu. We are going to maintain that.
This vu is very, very important because this is the one in the others of teaching.
Teaching said that three words of garab dody, three words of garab dody, possibly introducing,
there are many translations, it's kind of different, could translate, many translations, personally
,
but introducing the real nature of your own and the nature of your own mind, or our own mind.
This nature of your own mind is the vu. That is what we are going to, you are going to vu.
When we are meditating, in the Dzogti meditator, you are beholding that vu, how vu?
Even your looks like gazing outside, but in fact, you are gazing your inner space, vu.
Gaving inner space will be relaxing calm. That inner space is present.
It's not the past, it's not the future. It is actually in fact, in the Buddha teaching or the Dzog
ti teaching,
it's even not present thought or in the consultative level present. It's beyond three times.
So it's beyond the past, beyond the future, beyond the present, it's beyond.
That known is a great present status. In that sense, what that means?
It means, because three times is also still the conception of past, present, and future.
But Dzogti, your nature, now our vu, your vu, is not in that conceptual frame of the times, it's
beyond.
And you are relaxing that nature. That is, so that is the vu, really about the vu.
And then of course, this teaching talks, teaching explaining more, more about this.
Now, the next one is, he said that speed up all the bermis and parts, speed up all the bermis and
parts so fast.
And then fly to Garuda, speed up this. So that means, when you are relaxing on that person's state
of the Dzogti,
person's state of the Dzogti, or when you are relaxing on that natural state of mind,
the pew from the beginning, kada, kada is the pew from the beginning, kada, santhara, unempatent,
an organ nature of the kunduzang. When you are relaxing on that natural status, all the bermis and
parts are totally,
you've been so fast, you reach to the organ state where Buddhas are, where Buddha is, or where Budd
has are, actually.
Buddhas are. Buddhas are in the Dharmakaya status, always. And Sambokaya status, Narmakaya status.
When you relax on that natural state of mind beyond the three times in that natural status, you, we
are in the Dharmakaya status.
To reach the Dharmakaya status according to suttara, how long it takes? Three countless eons,
according even to Mahayana, three countless eons.
Then in the Kariyat, then there is like six to three light times, seven light times, three light
times, and so forth, so forth.
In this case, we instantly reach to the, the, exactly the, the organ state, the absolute status, as
exactly the true nature is.
And that's what, what we've heard many times. Mungaling our mind with Dharmakayas. Mungaling with
our mind at Dharmakaya is not just notion.
When you are relaxed on the Dharmakaya status without disturbed by the, the mundane conceptions, we
are within the Dharmakaya state of mind.
Mind, that is what is. But our, even we are relaxed on that natural state of mind because our dual
ity is so strong, so dense and so powerful.
There is a window of light comes for a short moment and then again cloud comes and covered up by
that.
For that reason, then practice of the Dzogchen. Dzogchen are any practices, of course, in sutra
teaching that we need joyful effort.
We need devotions. We need bodhicitta. Combine together. Combine together, marriage the continuity,
joy, appreciation, bodhicitta, and devotion combine together.
And occasionally thinking of those, this precious lives, how this life is so precious. Not I said
maybe occasion, but we should think that.
We should reflect precious lives. And also in parliament, cause and effort are inevitable.
And cause and effort, the results are inevitable. And Samsara has a lot of difficulties and
troubles and challenges.
Thinking of those, what those will do? In the teaching said, always it is true.
If we think of those things, it makes our heart more soft, soft heart, more tender heart.
At the same time we become more practical, more practical, more sensible.
More we bring more common sense to our knowledge. We can understand more kind of respect,
appreciation, considerations.
All those will follow and we start reflecting the precious lives, how life is so precious.
How life is also pride in parliament. And cause and effort, the results are inevitable.
And then Samsara has a lot of difficulties, challenges, ups and downs, changes, all of that.
Think of those, these things. Zokim practitioners generally should think those.
Even the great Zokim master, Palfra Rumbuji, he is always the new Rumbuji.
And the Muammar Rumbuji, they always emphasize on those.
And all the long keepers, when you read books of their life story, read all the Zokim master, all
the Muhammad master, everyone.
And all those say again that because it will resettle our mind, myself more settled down, we become
more sensible.
Not just always become self-important or kind of hovering all the time with the ego, all the time
something.
More kind of relaxed, more sensible, more appreciative.
To appreciate to our family, friends, neighbors and more sensibles.
We become good person, good person. That means we are taking the life, meaning of our lives.
And that's what. So therefore again, part and the boomies.
Part of course, there is five parts. Those are known as the five parts you all know.
I will just say name. Our name was this accumulation part.
Second is the application part.
And third is the seeing part.
And fourth is the meditation part.
Fifth is part of normal study.
No more things to do, to achieve the realizations.
So therefore, there are five parts.
First the booming, first the part.
But first the part.
First the part of accumulation part.
And the application parts are, according to the teaching, they are still in the level of samsaras.
We are trying to make things to change the samsaras.
Accumulation part, application part.
The seeing part is the first time that now we behold the view exactly as it is without presumption,
without theory, without consumption, or without analytics.
Seeing, natural as it is, naked, fresh.
Fresh as, for example, as you see built with brilliant sky,
free from the clothes and misty dusters, you see how clear, bright it is.
You see, and we see that same way seeing that nature.
That is what the seeing part is.
Then the meditation part.
The meditation part, from the seeing part all the way to meditation part is known as then,
in the booming level, 10 boomies.
All the 10 boomies started with first the booming, and the seeing parts are senor nails.
Senor nails.
And then continually you advance one after another, one after another.
And then reach to the 10th boomies, advancing.
What you are advancing in this time, you are advancing all the parameters,
all the beautiful practices, advancing, developing, expanding,
deepening of our joy, our appreciation, our love, our kindness, our detachment, our realization.
And along with that, our compromise, our generosity, our passion, our joyful effort,
our concentrations, our wisdom, our skillful means, our powers, our inspirations,
the wisdom knowledge, all that one after another,
developing, shining, and expanding, fulfilling, yet so humble, so simple,
drawn to the earth, as I said, it brings a common sense,
more common sense, more sensible, and more drawn to the earth.
Look at this, Buddha is written higher than realization that what we Buddha call in Buddhism.
How humble, when you read the Buddha's teaching, how humble, how simple.
He goes with the monks and his nuns' teachings, with bare feet and holding his own,
begging balls, begging balls wearing his robe.
That's what the Buddha is.
That's how really Buddha Buddha, how simple and humble.
All these great masters you do read, such a great master, realization,
that humble and simple, more kind of mingling with everyone,
they're not kind of bursted outside on the spotlight, this, and this, and that things.
So simple.
That's how the sign of the realization comes.
Sign of realization is individual, so gentle, so peaceful.
All the activities of the body become gentle, peaceful.
Speech is become gentle, peaceful, more polite, more humble, more respectful.
Mind is soft as day, free from the ego.
Duality, anger, emotion, those all evaporated in the full love of comparison.
But that is a rise.
That is the word that this great master, this realization shines forth.
So that is the word, really, about this.
Masalaam.
Then this powerful plight of garutas.
Powerful plight of garutas.
So when you have this zoking vu, the tenkyu vu, all zoking vus,
and keeping up that, when you discover, when you're maintaining that,
as you discover that vu, that we are in the plight of garutas.
We are powerful plight of garutas.
That will speed roughly at once all the bad bhumis and parts.
Parts.
And as I said, according to the sutramahayana level,
to reach the buddha board, three countless eos.
Three countless.
Even that is the, in the buddha teaching said, said like, what's called,
there is three categories.
The vast capabilities of the individual practitioners
that in the following sutramah, reached the buddha board in three countless eos.
Such as buddha shakimani, that is.
And the second capabilities of the individual who follow in the Mahayana path,
reached enlightenment in seven countless eos.
Seven countless eos, that's it.
And third capability of the practitioners who followed again the Mahayana path,
with joy in love and joy of effort,
call it commandment, the reaching, but about thirty-two countless eos.
Countless eos.
That is what's said.
And here, within the single lifetimes, in the sub-teaching said,
if you have the vast technique, and with joy and devotion both each other,
and receive the teaching, maybe at the beginning well you're sitting on the cushion,
you are only beings, but when you get up into the cushion,
you are in the past bhoomi or maybe more.
That's what really said.
That's how fast it is.
And for those reasons, then in the mala-repa's work,
teaching said, zouki teaching is so spiritual,
if you receive this heard this teaching,
and moment you glimpse, you are enlightenment in that,
if you receive that teaching on practice in the evening time,
you reach enlightenment in the evening time.
If you read this teaching and practice that in the morning,
you reach enlightenment in the morning time.
And in some cases, they don't need any effort to just do the practice.
Practice you received zouki teaching, you reach enlightenment instantly.
That's what it says.
So that, this great master, Rungbung Haga,
said that to zouki master Rungbung Haga,
said to mala-repa and mala-repa thought,
oh, that's really, I'm the one of the fortunate ones,
I'm the one of the, I think it's really fortunate.
And I practice all those black maggies,
kind of achieved so quickly, I able to do quickly.
And today I made this such a great teacher.
And now I receive this teaching.
I think I'm the one of the best candidate.
So I don't need to practice.
I thought, he thought, I don't need to practice.
With that thought, he's sleeping, sleeping, sleeping.
So then this teacher came, Rungbung Haga came, came in the morning.
He's so, so, so sleeping.
So he said, my student, what happened to you?
He said, because teacher, you told,
the fortunate ones, we don't have to meditate and practice.
So I thought, I'm the one of the fortunate to meet inside you
and it's such a great teaching.
So that's what I'm sleeping, he said.
So then, so then this Rungbung Haga said, oh, oh, this is not my connected disciple.
He said, he should go, he should go to then Marpa.
He should go to Marpa.
And then he told, you should go to the Marpa.
And Marpa is your, your currently connected teacher.
And then, of course, the moment he heard the Marpa's name,
same thing as Yaukar has heard his teacher's name.
He said, really, this is, his sports come out.
It's kind of like, chills up, chills up.
And he's just eager to see him.
And then he went to the Marpa.
So, so that's what, then Marpa, I mean, then meet,
all the Malaripas life story begins, the realization that begins.
That's how it is.
So, so therefore, I mean, so fast, so instant, and is,
but you have to, that instant, even though it's so fast,
so special, it's like, as I use the example as modern time,
maybe it's space shuttle, shuttle, space shuttle challenges.
Space challenge challenges.
When you do, when you have that challenge, challenges,
it's not just enough, you have to challenge, space shuttle challenge.
You have to prepare to, to go in that shuttles.
How many times you have to go to Kep Kanewa?
Kep Kanewa and learn to go in there.
That is what we have to do.
We have the space shuttle, truly.
We have the flight with Garuda's, but we have to be prepared.
We have, this preparation is not just, we prepare it some way,
and then go to flight.
We prepare along with well-being in the shuttle, or challenges,
well-being in the flight of Garuda's.
That is devotion.
That is bodhicitta.
That is a six paramata.
That is, as I said, condensed all the six paramata.
Then I say, "Yes, sir, I'll make three trainings, three trainings,
trainings, morality, concentration, customs."
Those all break. That is what we're going to break.
We prepare that.
Then we take this shuttle, truly, and apply the Garuda,
then everything will be speed up, speed up, and reach enlightenment.
Now, for that, that is really about fun and Buddhism.
Now, flight of Garuda is a metaphor, metaphor names.
Garuda, in the teaching, said, "Garuda is a celestial bird.
A celestial bird, it has power, so powerful, so rich, so quickly.
The places, because it's so powerful, speed up, but also, Garuda is so high.
Birds cannot fly so high as Garuda.
So he has the best bird eyes, wolves.
Garuda has the bird best, the super bird eyes, eye wolves.
And also, Garuda has what powers?
Garuda has powers.
Turn the poison into the man. He can eat the poison instantly.
Instantly, and he's not going to affect that.
So he's not going to have to run from the poison.
Rather, he enjoyed the sumptuous of the poisons
and used that growth and spread the splendid power of the Garuda.
Those are the metaphors of the Dzokhi teachings.
Dzokhi is the highest of wolves.
That's Garuda's bird eyes, highest of best eyes.
And long time American in the teaching said,
"The Dzokhi's wheel is like the wheel of the top of the mountain,
looking to the top of the mountain every 360-degree angles, every direction."
You're not looking in one corner side of that, all 360-degree angles.
Angles. So that is what Dzokhi is. It's like Garuda's, Garuda's.
And then Garuda is so fast, and we make that already, make it.
And Garuda don't have to skip from the poisons,
trying to avoid that, reject that.
Garuda can consume that to spread out.
Dzokhi don't have to give up anything.
Dzokhi tried not sorting out things, this and that thing,
as is the arise, liberated that.
Use those, any emotions, use those, whatever situation comes,
as training, the strengthening of the realization.
Understand, instant, ask Garuda all the poisons, five poisons.
Five poisons, what are the five poisons?
Ignorance, attachment, anger, jealous, arrogance.
Those are all transcendent, liberated, right that instant,
right on the origin nature state.
One is transcendented, one is become.
Five wisdom is calling of the out coming,
the expression of the energies of the five wisdom,
arising in a different dimension, different level.
It never affected that individually,
nor it infected to the friends or others.
It's instantly liberated at that time more, glorified,
polished of our own realization,
understanding of the nature, where things are.
That is the one metaphor of this, this flight of Garuda.
So this is powerful, this is big will,
this is transcendental, transformation, all those reasons.
This is Garuda.
And then Garuda is in the Buddha's teaching,
is a celestial book and it is cited,
and also in the Buddha's teaching, in the Tushida heavens.
And in the wisdom there is many, many in the Vedayana teaching,
those are many wisdom Garudas, those are.
So really that is the meaning of the flight of Garudas.
And now maybe I just stop here,
up here, if you have some questions, I will discuss.